# Passes

Passes are the core of ClassroomPass. This page serves to show you the different types of passes, their structure, along with how to verify passes and
how to view passes when shown to you.

## Types of passes

There are different types of passes and pass categories.

### Tardy Passes

Excused tardy passes are identified as `ex_tardy` when shown on the pass screen, while unxcused tardies are identified as `unex_tardy` when shown on the 
pass screen. Tardy passes expire within 10 minutes. Unlike most other passes, tardy passes do not have a Teacher or Admin account attached to them.

### Teacher Passes

Teacher passes are passes that are created by a teacher for use by one student. They have an expiration time of 1 hour after creation. 

### Group Passes

Group passes are teacher passes that are not bound to one particular student. They last the length of that day.


## Structure of passes

All passes contain 3 core parts of information

### Pass ID

The Pass ID a unique number identifier for a pass. At its core it is a string of 8 numbers, randomly generated by the system at the time of the pass's 
creation. There will not be more than 1 active pass with the same ID at any given time. All passes share the same ID structure. Pass IDs can be shown 
with or without a space in the middle. See below for examples.

Example Pass IDs:
* `12345678`
* `1234 5678`

### Pass Timestamp

The Pass Date field contains the date and time the pass was submitted at. They are given in `YYYY-MM-DD` date format with a 24-hour time format. An 
example would be `2018-6-5 8:45` for June 5th, 2018 at 8:45 AM or `2018-3-1 14:30` for March 1st, 2018 at 2:30 PM. 

### Student Name

This is the name of the student the pass is purposed for, it will either display a name ex. `John Doe` or `Any`

